# R_in_atmospheric_science
This project was created in 2018 and was presented by me during the Sopot Youth conference. R was a relatively lesser-known language in the academic environment at that time. In this project, I aimed to demonstrate that this language could be effectively utilized in visualizing atmospheric data.
Abstract:
Air pollution constitutes a prominent issue in Poland, especially during the winter period.  Aerosols with a diameter lower than 2.5 µm (PM2.5) are a significant threat to our health, therefore their monitoring is needed. Even in the Tricity, commonly known as a place with good air quality, aerosol concentrations can be elevated above European limits. The study presents the scrunity of PM2.5 concentrations in Gdynia and its sources during 2017’s smog episodes. The analysis of obtained concentrations was conducted using R with the openair package. The presented tools are easy to use and make air pollution analysis more effective. Nevertheless, it can be used in other scientific research. By determining the variability of PM2.5 the study displays diverse ways to produce statistics computations and graphics. Basic statistics were presented on violin plot which is a compilation of boxplot and histogram. Calendar plot shows daily variability of  PM2.5 concentrations, while pollution rose combines information about wind directions and PM2.5 concentration. GoogleMapPlot, as an alternative to GIS, displays spatial variability of PM2.5 in Gdynia in comparison with other parts of Poland. The presented tools shed new light on statistic and data presentation not only in the case of air pollution. 

